---
title: OS Related
date: 2024-04-20 09:58:10
categories:
 - interview
tags:
 - interview
---

## 1. Virtual Memory

- What is virtual memory? Indirection between the program's addresses and the RAM addresses. Mapping disk space into memory. 
- Virtual memory addresses (VA) and Physical memory addresses (PA). VA is the address that the program uses. PA is the address in RAM. The MMU translates VA to PA. 

> A memory management unit (MMU) is **a computer hardware unit** that examines all memory references on the memory bus, translating these requests, known as virtual memory addresses, into physical addresses in main memory. [Memory management unit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory_management_unit)

### 1.1. Example

```risc
ld r1, 400(r2)
```

This instruction means to load data into register r1 from the address calculated by adding an **offset of 400** to the content of register r2.

1. Calculate the Virtual Address:
   - Assume the register r2 currently holds the virtual address 0x1000 (4096 in decimal).
   - The offset 400 (in decimal) is added to the content of r2.
   - Therefore, the calculated virtual address is 0x1000 + 0x190 = 0x1190 (virtual address).
2. Virtual to Physical Address Translation:
   - The MMU receives the virtual address 0x1190 and begins to look up the page table **for the current process**.
   - Suppose the page table entry shows that this virtual address maps to the physical address 0x5000.
   - The page offset (offset within the page) remains 0x190.
   - Thus, the complete physical address is 0x5000 + 0x190 = 0x5190.
3. Access Physical Memory and Execute Instruction:
   - Once the physical address is determined, the MMU instructs the system to load data from physical address 0x5190.
   - The data is loaded into register r1.

### 1.2. Other Concepts

- Both MIPS and ARM are types of RISC architectures. RISC is a type of microprocessor design.
- MIPS gives each program its own 32-bit address space. Programs can only access any byte in their own address space.

1) What if we don't have enough memory? 
2) Holes in our address space? 
3) Keeping programs secure with virtual memory. 

[(1) Virtual Memory: 4 How Does Virtual Memory Work?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59rEMnKWoS4&list=PLiwt1iVUib9s2Uo5BeYmwkDFUh70fJPxX&index=4)


## Segment Fault

A segmentation fault is a specific type of error that occurs when a program tries to access a segment of memory that it doesn’t have the permissions to access or that doesn’t exist, leading to the program’s abrupt termination by the operating system. 

[Understanding Segmentation Fault: What it is & How to Fix it](https://www.percona.com/blog/segmentation-fault-a-dba-perspective/)

## How does a game that is several hundred gigabytes run on a computer with only a few gigabytes of memory?


## How does user mode switch to kernel mode?

Reference: [莉莉丝后端服务器go开发实习生一面二面挂 - 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/681401956)